I'm Phil Gail welcome to the program
media linked to the terrorist
organization Hamas say an explosion at a
house in southern Gaza has killed an
injured several people including
children many of the Wounded have been
taken to a hospital in the territory's
densely populated city of KH Yunis
Reports say at least four people have
been killed Hamas blames an Israeli air
strike for the casualties the United
Nations says more than 3,000 people have
been killed in Gaza since the 7th of
October that was when Hamas killed than
14400 people in Israel launching this
current and most serious escalation in
the decades long Israeli Palestinian
conflict Israel Defense Forces say these
strikes are targeting infrastructure of
the Hamas terrorist group in Gaza IDF
claims to have killed the head of the
military branch of another armed terror
group in these strikes Israel say
terrorist group hisbah along the Israel
Lebanon border was also targeted
overnight our aircraft continued large
scale strikes on Military positions of
the Hezbollah terrorist
organization the rational is to strike
hezbollah's observation systems along
the border of course this is in
retaliation for missiles fired at
Israel any strike by Hezbollah will be
met with a significant response from
us
in the Gaza Strip news agency footage
shows aftermath of an Israeli air strike
in southern Gaza Israel had earlier told
gazin in the north of the territory to
evacuate South for their safety Medics
rushed the injur to the hospital many
including children reportedly didn't
survive there is absolutely no
difference between Gaza City Rafa KH
Yunis between the North the South South
the east or the West they sent us to the
South and there have been strikes here
every day every day there are deaths in
massive
numbers and this footage shows buildings
turned into Rubble reportedly after a
strike on Rafa near gaza's border with
Egypt my daughter was not a militant and
was not involved in any
battles she was sleeping peacefully at
home she was just a child and couldn't
differentiate between an enemy or an
ally what shall I do now it's a crime
it's unfair where is the world and the
people calling for children's
rights a question International powers
are grappling with British prime
minister Rishi sonak is the latest head
of government to travel to Israel and
the Middle East attempting to deescalate
the
conflict well after Colonel Peter lner
speaks for the IDF Israel's military
welcome back to
DW leftenant Colonel is the IDF bombing
Han Unis in southern
Gaza the IDF is conducting strikes
against Hamas extensively and I would
say throughout the Gaza Strip absolutely
most of our operations are focused on
where uh the the the Hub the heart the
Beating Heart of the terrorist
organization the terrorist Army of Hamas
but absolutely when there is a threat
originating or uh being conducted
against Israel from the south and we
will strike absolutely and since last
week I I the IDF has been telling
civilians in Northern Gaza to evacuate
to the South for their safety why did
you tell them to go there if you were
going to continue to bomb the
area we did not say at any stage that we
would not strike Hamas terrorists
wherever they are hiding this op
operation this war against Hamas
continues wherever they are hiding they
have no the Hamas terrorist organization
has no safe place we will pursue them we
will kill them and we will make sure
they can never ever abduct murder
butcher Israelis ever again so when uh
men women and children take the idf's
advice and move to Southern Gaza uh at
your behest they are still liable to be
bombed by Israel
no we do not Target civilians that's in
an in accurate uh conclusion that you
made we are targeting Hamas
specifically specifically and and I need
to emphasize that we are not targeting
targeting civilians we are moving
civilians out of Harm's Way We Are
announcing to civilians where we where
we intend on striking that is precisely
why we evacuated so many people from the
north because we intend and continue to
operate against this Terror organization
indeed there are terrorists still Hamas
terrorists still in hunas there are
still terrorists operating in Rafa just
like uh um and and therefore we will
continue to seek them out and and um
take them out of the equation absolutely
you you say that you are targeting Hamas
terrorists and yet there are deaths and
casualties uh in their hundreds uh in uh
hospitals in the overcrowded hospitals
in Khan Unice um so your targeting
appears not to be that
precise no on the contrary I would
suggest that the vast majority of our
efforts are focused and effective
against Hamas against the terrorist
organization and I heard that DW were
actually quoting Hamas media so you're
quoting the propaganda machine of a an
organization that is putting a huge
effort on psychological terrorism so I I
would be very very cautious in any
figures coming out of H the Hamas uh
machine of Lies this is a a very
problematic situation it is nevertheless
a war a war on those that care for life
like Israel and those that have no
regard for any life Israeli or
Palestinian uh we're showing uh viewers
now a map of the al- maazi humanitarian
Zone in uh West Khan Unice which the IDF
presented on Wednesday a tiny sliver of
land inside the tiny territory that is
Gaza which is home to about 2 million
people will that be safe from Israeli
bombing that is a designated Zone indeed
that has been declared a safe zone or a
humanitarian Zone and you know we are
continuing our operations against Hamas
and indeed there is a huge challenge in
the civilian Arena but the
responsibility for the people of Gaza
does not lie on the shoulders of Israel
Israel is not inside Gaza uh today we
have no forces except for very small
raids that are taking place to collect
bodies of that Hamas abducted and
dropped and left in the Open Fields on
the perimeter area so the responsibility
lies with the authority but where is
Hamas they're hiding and they're
sacrificing the people of Gaza our
responsibility is to restore security to
the people of Israel the security that
was devastated by the atrocities of a
terrorist organization that has no
regard for anybody's life they don't
care about Israelis and they don't care
about Palestinians they are holding 203
israelies hostage today and they're
holding two million hostages of
Palestinians thank you for that I'm I I
wasn't clear in your your answer um
whether the al- maazi humanitarian Zone
in West Khan Unis will be safe from
Israeli
bombing as
I humanitarians
if terrorists come into a humanitarian
Zone and condu conduct attacks rocket
attacks against Israel then they are
jeopardizing a humanitarian Zone you
expect us not to defend our people
because Hamas abuses their people Hamas
of course a terrorist organization
Israel a democratic State tell us more
about the measures that the IDF is
taking to minimize the civilian death
toll in
Gaza the uh operations of the IDF are
built around three concepts of
Distinction first of all between
non-combatants and terrorists second of
all the military necessity of the
military operation so if it's a specific
strike we look at that and then build
around the military necessity and then a
after all uh uh we weigh on the
proportionality that that strike the
military strike will give us a military
Advantage when defeating uh Hamas in
this in this war so when we look at
those three components that we then talk
about the tools that we do whether it's
evacuation or forewarning announcement
you know when we announce that we are
going or to evacuate a specific area we
are basically setting us s second
setting ourselves up for Ambush by the
enemy this is the challenge we Face
indeed it is a very we see we are seeing
the images coming out
of your your your answer is very clear a
word about the future as I understand it
you're hoping to eliminate Hamas as a
military threat to Israel and a
political entity in Gaza so what is the
plan for Gaza the day after you achieve
that from Israel's perspective any
alternative will be better than this
alternative than Hamas of course this
organization can never be allowed to
rule the Gaza Strip as a staging ground
for terrorism Butchery abduction ever
again and so the the the plight or the
the the future of the Gaza Strip I would
say will lie on the shoulders of the
people of Gaza not on Israel we don't
want to run Gaza we don't want to rule
Gaza we left Gaza precisely because we
don't want to rule Gaza but we cannot
permit it to be a staging ground for
massacres of of women children and
babies we cannot allow the the Gaza
Strip to be used as a springboard for
terrorism against our people our
responsibility and this is this is why
we didn't choose this war we are
determined to win it and we will our
responsibility is to restore Safety and
Security to the people of Israel thank
you so much for joining us leftenant
Colonel Peter Lerner from the Israeli
Defense
Forces thank
you